[MUSIC]
Hi, in this video, we're going to
differentiate the two ways you document
functionality in a software
requirement specification document.
The reason there are two ways to write
these statements of what the system will
do is that there are two audiences for
that information.
The first audience is the user or
the client, depending on whether or
not they're the same person.
In many cases, the user isn't technical.
And so we'd have a very difficult time
talking with you about what they want
the software to do.
They don't know the potential
of what they can do.
But we still need to provide some
sort information that explains
what the system will do, so
that the user is relatively assured
that they get at the end what the client
is paid for and it actually does what
the user or client wanted them to do.
The second audience is
the developing team.
We also need to provide enough detail to
allow the people making the solution,
making the code.
Know what the system should and
shouldn't do.
Now, this is where things
tend to get tricky.
We use natural language,
primarily because it allows for
an easy communication
protocol with our users.
Know or very little,
technical jargon should hopefully
avoid some miscommunications.
But it's often not very precise.
Let me give you an example.
Imagine that you're talking with a street
vendor, they're selling you drinks.
You ask what they have.
The merchant says, bottle of water or
a cup of tea is a dollar.
You tell the merchant, I'll take both.
The merchant obliges and you put down
a dollar, and start to walk away.
Does that sound right to you?
This is what's called an exclusive or.
The or in the case of the language here
means one or the other, but not both.
How about this?
I tell you that if you pass all
the quizzes or pass all the assignments,
then you pass the class.
You then pass all the quizzes and
you pass all the assignments, and
I tell you that you failed the course.
You be a bit upset by that?
This is an exclusive or.
The or in this case means one or
the other, or both and
then there's the problem of people
saying and when they mean or.
The moral of this story is we need to be
very careful of the language we use when
developing these statements.
So let's distinguish them a little bit.
User requirements are exactly what
the user wants the solution to do in
the user’s language.
Users do not want to log in though,
we want them to.
They want the system to be secured
to only allow them to say,
post to Facebook on their behalf.
Logging in is the systems specification.
The required action of the system
solution were developing.
System spec is the usually more precise or
constraining statement of how the system
will meet the user requirements.
This is still with the solution
we'll do not how, but
it's how the system will
meet the requirement.
Software design then takes this
requirement specification and details that
how, which modules be constructed will it
be oriented toward design and development.
How do we make it happen?
This still may not be clear,
so let’s take a quick example.
Take this user requirement.
We want to make a boat and
sell to the general public.
We talked to some users to
find out what they want, so
that we can build what they want so
we can make money.
We can tell when a user can put
our boat on a rack by themselves,
but how do we constrain and specify our
solution to make sure that happens?
Because the generic statement, one person
must be able to load the boat on a car
rack doesn't really give our
design team anything to go on.
So we specify the solution in such a way
that our specification means that we
have met the requirement here.
Now, we have at least a partial
list of things we must meet.
And if we meet these things,
we have met the user requirement or
at least we think we have.
This is another area of potential mistake.
Making assumptions about whether these
specifications will translate about having
met the requirement.
So you need to take care that these and
only these are sufficient
to meet the requirement.
So we assume that if the boat's lighter
than 100 pounds that it has handles,
that one person can load
it onto the car rack.
There is a slight, but important
distinction between the requirements and
the specification and it's never quite
as easy to distinguish them in reality.
Real world users may very well give
you specification level detail.
So not all requirements need a lot
of specification level detail to
refine the intent.
But a lot of time,
it does need that requirement.